# Array Methods with Callbacks

## Lesson Objectives

1. Define and understand the various different callback methods that can be used on an array.
2. Understand what each method does and when we might want to use it.

## What is an Array Method with a Callback?

An array method that accepts a callback executes a function on the index of the given array and returns some output.

**Okay...but what does that mean?**

Lets take a look:

```javascript
const iceCreams = ['Vanilla','Chocolate','Strawberry','Rocky Road'];
```

What if I want to go over each item in this array and add the word Ice Cream to these items?

... How would you solve this?

Lucky for us we have the `.map` method.

```javascript
const iceCreams = ['Vanilla', 'Chocolate', 'Strawberry', 'Rocky Road'];

const updatedIceCreams = iceCreams.map((flavor)=>{
    return flavor + " Ice Cream";
});

console.log(updatedIceCreams);
```

*What is happening here?*

`map` calls a provided callback function once for each element in an array, in order, and constructs a new array from the return values.

**Food for thought: Does the `map` method mutate the original array?**

### Lets try that again!

Use the `map` method with the following array to multiply each item by 2 and log the new array.

```javascript
const originalArray = [2,4,6,8,10];

const newNumArray = originalArray.map((num) => {
    return num * 2
})

console.log(newNumArray);
```

What was the result?

###### // expected: [4, 8, 12, 16, 20]

## Now you try
### Activity - 30 mins

JavaScript has lots of pre-defined array methods available for us.  Each array method accepts a callback function which is executed on each of the elements in the array and may or may not do something with the results of that function.

With the following arrays, define and perform all of the methods below. Each group will then be assigned a method to teach to the class. When you present your method to the class, please come up with a real world example of when you might use this method.

1. Every
1. Filter
1. Find
1. Find Index
1. For Each
1. Map _(come up with a new example!)_
1. Reduce
1. Some
1. Sort _(research how to use sort with a callback)_

```javascript
const classArray = ['Javascript','HTML','CSS','Data Analysis', 'Marketing', 'Database Design', 'Visual Design'];

const numberArray =  [31, 203, 30, 84, 5, 62, 770, 8, 99, 10, 0];
```

## Hungry for more

Further Explanations (https://codeburst.io/array-methods-explained-filter-vs-map-vs-reduce-vs-foreach-ea3127c6d319)
